What if there was a way to heat your home
in winter, cool it in summer, and provide
abundant hot water all year round, all while
cutting your utility bills up to 80?
How?
By installing a ClimateMaster Geothermal central
heating and air conditioning system in your
home.
Here's how it works:
Wherever you live, the temperature beneath
your home remains constant, regardless of
the season.
Just a few feet down, the earth is a consistent
55 degrees, summer or winter.
ClimateMaster Geothermal Heat Pump Systems
harness the stable underground temperature
to provide heating, cooling, and hot water
at remarkably high efficiencies.
So high, in fact, that energy use can be cut
by up to 80 percent.
To access this stable underground temperature,
a geothermal heat pump is connected to a series
of underground loop pipes.
These pipes are made from an extremely strong
and long-lasting material.
Water, usually mixed with an environmentally
safe antifreeze solution, is pumped through
this loop pipe system.
In summer, the heat pump takes heat from the
air in your home, transfers it to the underground
loop system, which then radiates the heat
away into the cool earth.
Now cooled to a comfortable temperature, the
air is circulated through your home using
a traditional duct system.
In winter, the system is reversed.
Heat is extracted from the ground using the
same loop system.
In the heat pump, the heat from the underground
loop is compressed to a much higher temperature
and used to warm the air in your home.
Since the geothermal system uses and earth
loop to provide your home with heat in the
winter, there is no need to burn any fossil
fuel for heating.
No flame, no carbon monoxide and environmentally
friendly, geothermal systems are the smart
way to heat and cool your home.
Let's compare a high-efficiency gas furnace
to a geothermal system for heating your home.
A high-efficiency gas furnace will give you
less than .96 units of heat for each unit
of gas burned.
In contrast, a geothermal system gives you
up to FIVE units of heat for each unit of
electricity used.
How can that be?
A furnace makes heat by burning fossil fuel.
A geothermal system doesn't make it's own
heat.
It simply collects heat from the earth and
moves it to your home.
Now let's compare a geothermal heating and
cooling system to an air-source heat pump
for cooling.
When it's hot outside, an air-source heat
pump takes heat from your home and moves it
to the outside air.
As the outside air becomes warmer in summer,
it becomes harder and harder for the system
to dump heat from your home into the already
hot outside air.
Because of this, when cooling the home with
an air-source heat pump, the system becomes
least efficient when it needs to be most efficient.
A geothermal heat pump system doesn't have
this problem.
A geothermal system exchanges the heat in
your home with the cooler ground, using it's
underground loop system.
It simply doesn't have to deal with high outside
air temperatures the way an air-source heat
pump does.
Add to this the fact that a geothermal system
is installed safely inside your home with
a loop buried under ground.
Unlike an air-source heat pump, there is no
outdoor equipment exposed to the elements
or the risk of vandalism.
Let's take a look at geothermal loop systems.
There are several different ways to install
a geothermal loop system.
Where space allows, horizontal loop are the
most cost-effective loop design for most home
owners.
If space is limited, a vertical loop system
is often the best choice.
If a nearby pond or lake is available, a coiled
loop system can be used.
This is the fastest, easiest loop system to
install.
If a well is available that produces sufficient
volumes of water, and open loop system can
be installed.
An open-loop system takes water from the well,
pumps it through the heat pump system, and
then returns it to the environment in a responsible,
renewable manner.
And geothermal systems don't just heat and
cool your home.
They can also provide you with hot water.
Besides a nice shower and washing your hands,
you can use the large volumes of hot water
a geothermal system can produce for radiant
under floor heating or even for show and ice
melt under your walk ways and driveway.
A geothermal central heating and air conditioning
system from ClimateMaster can be installed
in almost any home, new or existing.
They can be installed in an attic, garage
or utility closet.
Or in the case of a retrofit installation,
they can even be installed in place of an
old, outdoor air conditioning compressor section.
There are even more ways to save with a ClimateMaster
Geothermal system than just lowering your
utility bills.
You can save up to 30 percent off the total
cost of installing a ClimateMaster geothermal
system with a federal tax credit.
Additionally, many states and local governments
and utilities also offer incentives for installing
a geothermal system.
As the world's largest and most progressive
leader in clean, renewable geothermal technology
For more than 50 years ClimateMaster has designed
and manufactured industry-leading heating
and cooling equipment for the commercial and
residential construction market world-wide.
Visit us at climatemaster.com to learn more
about geothermal central heating and air conditioning
systems.